Hello, everyone.
And welcome to the files lecture.
This is gonna be a pretty brief lecture.
We're just gonna go over how to interact
with external files in your computer.
And in this case, we're gonna start
with the very basics, the dot T-X-T, text files.
So, in order to deal with other types of files,
such is audio files or Excel documents,
you'll most likely have to, either,
download or import from its particular
library or module for Python.
And we discuss modules later on in the course.
Okay, so, here's the Jupyter notebook
that corresponds with this lecture.
You can go ahead a look through it.
But I'm just gonna go ahead
and jump straight into the live coding.
So, in order to work files, we need one.
So, what I've gone ahead and done
is I've created a file,
a dot text file, called test
.txt.
And I've saved it to the same directory
where my Juptyer notebooks are.
So, if I say P-W-D,
which stands for prints working directory,
and run that cell,
it gives you the location
where your Jupyter notebooks are.
So, go ahead and make a .txt file,
and just print a simple line in it.
So, if you're on Windows, you can use Notepad,
which is built in.
Just say anything here.
This is a line.
And then go ahead and save that as whatever name you want,
in this case, I've saved it as test.txt.
And save it into the directory, where the pwd tells you to.
So, moving along.
How do I open that file?
So, I'm gonna create a variable, just called f.
I'm gonna say that equals,
and this is where the open function comes into play.
So, we can open a file with the open function.
And I'm gonna say
test.txt.
And I've opened the file.
And now, if I wanna read the contents of the file,
I can call the read method on that file.
And I wrote, "This is a test line."
Great.
So, something interesting that happens,
is if I try to read that file again,
you'll notice nothing pops out.
So, why is this happening?
So, this reason this happens is
'cause you can imagine that you have a cursor,
kind of like the one I have blinking in this cell.
So, remember, we've already read the file once.
So, Python, in a sense, has a cursor
at the very end of the file.
So, you'll have to reset that cursor to the beginning.
And the way you can do that
is by using the seek method.
And passed the argument in zero.
So, that will send that cursor back
to the beginning of the file.
And if I say read again, now,
it says, "This is a test line."
So, one more time, I can press seek,
to return to that beginning of the file.
Another method you can do,
to read the lines of a file, is the read lines method.
And what that does
is it goes through every line in the file
and then treats it as an element
and returns a list to you,
with each line as a different element,
a giant string in that list.
Okay, great.
So, I'm gonna go quickly, kind of a sneak peek,
at iterating through a file.
So, we've gone over magic functions,
when we were introducing the Jupyter notebooks.
And in this case, we're gonna use a magic function,
called the write file.
And what this is gonna allow us to do is,
instead of having to open the notepad
or any other sub line, text,
or whatever you happen to choose,
I can actually
create a text file straight from the iPython cell.
So, I can say, first line.
Second line.
So, what this cell has right now,
is two percentage signs to let you know
that this write file statement is a magic function.
So, this only works in Jupyter notebooks.
And the space and then whatever name
I want that text file to have.
In this case, it's gonna be new.txt.
And then, I have two lines in my file.
First line and second line.
So, if I go ahead and run that cell,
Jupyter notebooks has told me it's writing new.txt.
Perfect.
So, what if I want to iterate
through this text file?
Here's where I'm gonna give you
a sneak peek at a for loop.
So, what I can say is for
line in
and I'm gonna open that file.
Which is called new.txt.
Remember I pass on the entire file name,
including the extension as a string.
Colon, notice how there's a white space
and indent here, that's gonna be important.
Don't worry if you don't understand
what's going on now.
We go over for loops in much more detail in the future.
This is kind of just a sneak peek.
And then I can say prints line.
So, the logic here is I'm saying for every line,
in this object, this file object that I'm opening here,
I want you to go ahead and print that line.
So, let's see if this works.
Perfect, so just as we expected,
it's printed the first line and the second line.
A couple things to note here,
this is to get you to start thinking
about different statements and for loops
and stuff like that is,
I could've called this anything.
I could've said for
words in open,
print words.
It still would've outputted the exact same thing,
as I have here.
So, you'll be able to have flexibility in
what you call each of those elements in those iterables.
Something, also, that's important to note is
read lines,
if you have a very large text file, could have problems.
Because the Python is right now,
storing this list, entirely in memory.
If you call read lines.
So, if you have an entire series of novels
or something and you call read lines on it,
that might be problematic.
So, make sure you call just .read on the file,
if you have a very, very large text file.
Okay, so, that's actually about it.
Remember we just briefly went over how to open .txt files
and how to read the elements in them.
If you wanna go over some more details
that are in the Jupyter notebook,
such as, reading and writing to a file, we go over that.
You can go ahead and check that out.
Reason we're not gonna go over that right now,
is that we're not really gonna use this
until much later on in the course.
So, this is just a brief introduction
and a little sneak peek into for loops.
Okay, so, that's it for this lecture.
Up next, we're gonna go through
learning how sets and bullions work in Python.
And that will be the last lecture in this section.
And then we'll wrap it up with an assessment test.
Okay, great job, everyone.